*** PART III (10 pt) ***

Is it a good idea to start the game with the Reed opening?

In order to determine whether the Reed opening is a good one, I decided to make the Reed player play
against different opponents. According to how many matches he wins, we will have an idea of how good the reed
opening is. In order to isolate the independent variable (the first two moves of the Reed player), I decided
to make the Reed player as smart as his opponent. So, I decided to make the opponent the minimax algorithm,
and have Reed use the same minimax algorithm too. They will have the same 'intelligence' when playing.
This way, when one of them wins, we can be quite certain that the opening was the reason of the result of the game (we can also
say that the player who started was the reason why he won/lost, but in this analysis we assume that the reed player always plays first),
as it will be the only difference between the two players.

In order to have different trials, I decided to play with the intelligence of the two players. Their intelligence was always the same,
but thanks to this change the new game would be different from the previous ones. This is so that we have different results, and we can
make sure that the given depth and breadth of the minimax algorithm doesn't have a huge impact on the result of the game. So, I decided to change the
value of the breadth of the trees that both players use (and not the depth as it would make the game take forever).

This is the result with depth 2 and altering the breadth for both players:
breadth: 6,     winner: opponent
breadth: 7,     winner: opponent
breadth: 8,     winner: opponent
breadth: 9,     winner: opponent
breadth: 10,    winner: opponent
breadth: 11,    winner: opponent
breadth: 12,    winner: opponent
breadth: 13,    winner: opponent
breadth: 14,    winner: opponent
breadth: 15,    winner: opponent
breadth: 16,    winner: opponent
breadth: 17,    winner: opponent
breadth: 18,    winner: opponent
didn't continue as the games took too long to load...

As we can see, the Reed player always lost when he was faced with an opponent of equal competence. As the only difference between the
two players was their opening, we can see from the results above that the Reed player does not have an advantage with that opening. On
the contrary, it seems that it is disadvantageous to him.

I then wondered how the Reed would fair against an opponent of lower level. I wanted to make sure that the Reed player could still
win against certain opponents.
I decided to represent that by letting the opponent minimax use a smaller tree (of smaller breadth). I kept Reed at a depth of 2 and breadth of 25, 
and edited the competence of Minimax by changing its breadth (and kept its depth at 2):
breadth: 6,     winner: Reed
breadth: 7,     winner: Reed
breadth: 8,     winner: Reed
breadth: 9,     winner: opponent
breadth: 10,    winner: opponent
breadth: 11,    winner: opponent
breadth: 12,    winner: opponent
I stopped here as the games got too long...

This is interesting. As we can see, Reed does win when the minimax algorithm uses very small trees. However, we don't really
know if Reed won because of its opening, or if it was because of its more intelligent algorithm. Hence, I decided to make a test
to see what it was. So, I made Reed (breadth 25) play against a dumb minimax (breadth 8) but reed does not have to do the reed opening. Hence,
the only difference was the intelligence of the two players. It turns out that Reed won, which means that the reason why it won in the
trial above, was thanks to its intelligence and not really his opening.

I also did some trials where Reed was less competent than its opponent, in order to see if the reed opening gave an advantage over
his opponent, but I got the same results as the first table (all losses).

In conclusion, we can see that the reed opening is not good. A reed player that chooses the reed opening will
always loose against a player of the same level of competence (hence, doing the opening is a disadvantage).
If the opponent is less competent, then the opening does not really matter as after the first two moves the player
Reed will play more optimally and will win against the opponent thanks to its intelligence and not its opening.
Similarly, if reed plays against a better opponent, then the opening does not give an advantage and will result in
reed losing due to its bad plays.

There are some limitations to my method though. For instance, my minimax algorithm is not the most clever decision
algorithm out there. When a player plays the reed opening, he will usually leverage the structure created in order to
heavily annoy the opponent. However, my minimax algorithm didn't really take advantage of it, so Reed perhaps did
not make optimal plays using the walls of the reed opening, and hence my tests were not really showing the full potential
of that technique. More research should be done where the algorithm of Reed and its opponent are much more clever, and manage
to use the structure of the reed opening in their biggest advantage.